---
layout: post
title: "yourub"
category: 
tags: [ruby, gems]
---
 

[Yourub](https://github.com/edap/yourub) is a gem that finds the most recent videos from the Youtube API for the given nation, category and number of views. It's updated to the version 3 of the youtube api

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'yourub'

Or, if you want to set the source of the gem on github, and specify a tag

    gem 'yourub' :git => 'git://github.com/edap/yourub.git', :tag => 'v0.1.0'
 
And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install yourub

## Usage

Get a developer key as explained [here](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Im69kzhpR3I)
If you are using rails, create a app/config/yourub.yml file as follow:

    yourub:
      developer_key: 'yourdeveloperkey'
      youtube_api_service_name: 'youtube'
      youtube_api_version: 'v3'
      application_name: "nameofyourapp"
      application_version: "version_number_of_your_app"
      log_level: WARN

As default beahviour, the Yourub gem retrieve 2 videos for each category for the default country, USA.
{% highlight ruby %}
result = Yourub::Search.new()
result.categories
result.videos
{% endhighlight ruby %}

Actually, is possible to select videos for a given country specifying the nation parameter (equivalent to the regionCode on the native youtube API) The parameter value is an [ISO 3166-1](http://www.iso.org/iso/country_codes/iso_3166_code_lists/country_names_and_code_elements.htm) alpha-2 country code.

{% highlight ruby %}
Yourub::Search.new(nation: "IT")
{% endhighlight ruby %}

for a given category

{% highlight ruby %}
Yourub::Search.new(category: "Sports")
{% endhighlight ruby %}

to filter out videos depending on the number of views that they have

{% highlight ruby %}
filter = {'views' => ">= 1000"}
Yourub::Search.new(filter: filter)
{% endhighlight ruby %}

to set the max number of videos for each nation/category request (max 50, default 2)

{% highlight ruby %}
result = Yourub::Search.new(max_results: 25)
{% endhighlight ruby %}

Or all the options together

{% highlight ruby %}
filter = {'views' => "<= 200"}
Yourub::Search.new(nation: "FR", category: "Comedy", max_results: 25, filter: filter)
{% endhighlight ruby %}

To get all the available metatags for a single video, simply give the Youtube video id as parameter
{% highlight ruby %}
Yourub::Search.new(video_id: "uCEeAn6_QJo")
{% endhighlight ruby %}

## Note on gem release.

Rake has a prebuilt task to simplify the release of a gem. After your gem is
ready and all your tests are green, run

    rake build

This will compile your gem in locale. To release a gem, pushing the source code
on github and publishing the .gem file on rubygems, simply run

   rake release 

before running this command, be sure to have increased the version number of
your gem and to have made a commit.
This gem follow the [semantic versioning](http://semver.org/), that means that
the version number of the release is composed by 3 numbers. MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH

MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes,
MINOR version when you add functionality in a backwards-compatible manner, and
PATCH version when you make backwards-compatible bug fixes. 
